>> Speaker 1: So
why is breeds not a dependency?
>> Brian Holt: So breeds,
as in this breeds right here.
>> Brian Holt: Is not a dependency.
I guess this is kind of misnamed
right here, breeds right there.
We could call this breeds,
like API breeds or something like that
>> Brian Holt: There we go.
So that could've been
confusing to you before.
It doesn't depend on
breeds because this breeds
is not used anywhere inside
of this useEffect right here.
It's not read from anywhere
inside of this effect, right?
Now set breeds is, right?
So that's why this is in here.
But API, I just want you to keep in mind
this breeds and that breeds are separate.
They're different things, right?
So this is never used inside of use effect
so therefore it's not dependent on.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah?
>> Speaker 1: Was there any problem
with component did not amount those life
cycle methods?
Why did hooks get created?
>> Brian Holt: Well, okay.
>> Speaker 1: [COUGH]
>> Brian Holt: There's a belief that hooks
are simpler than having to learn
the life cycle of components and
having to understand like context and
some other things like that.
And you can notice I'm being
non-committal with my language.
It's because I have my doubts about which
of these APIs is gonna be for the better,
and like maybe we'll address that a bit
later when we talk about class components.
That's probably the better so
that everyone can kind of
get on the same page here.
But the short answer to that is
people think that this is easier, and
then I'll teach you both, and you can be
the judge of which one you want to use.
But no, there's no there's no inherent
problem with class components.
>> Brian Holt: There's no limitations.
Actually, class components
can do more than hooks can.
>> Speaker 1: Currently
>> Brian Holt: Currently.
They have plans to fix the gaps,
but as of right now
there's still some things
that hooks can't do.
So one more thing we should
call it that we did here.
So if I go and select like American Eskimo
dog and then switch to Cat,
notice it very quickly switches that
back to be the default option, right?
That's something that we did
here with this empty string.
>> Brian Holt: Normally it's just kind
of understood, but I just wanna call out
the fact that as soon as I call setBreed
here to be empty string, because of
the way of the reactive stretch and
the way that we're thinking about this.
As soon as this is set, this is synced
to this animal drop down down here.
Or rather the breed drop down, that as
soon as I send that to empty string,
it immediately updates breed right here,
right?
So those are connected together,
we've clung that together.
So now it's really cool as long as we're
making sure that we're calling setBreed in
the right places, that it cascades that
effect down to all the places that
are depending on that information, right?
So that's the power of hooks and stuff
like that is as long as you're playing by
the React rules you get this
propagation state for free.
So I wanna tell you that useAffect and
useState are the two primary
hooks that you're gonna use.
That's gonna cover about
90% of your use cases.
So useState obviously the most common
use effect also being quite common, and
then maybe like useRef occasionally, and
then there's a long tail of other
hooks that you may never have to know.
So we'll definitely still talk about them,
we'll get into an intermediate React.
I think we'll still talk about Ref
in here, but that'll be it for
the React life cycle of the React host and
things like that.